docs/docs/develop/react-frontend.md, before:

---
title:  Platform UI / React
---

## Setup

The new React-based UI will not be available by default. In order to set your development environment up to view the frontend, follow this guide.
The new UI requires a separate frontend server to run to serve data for the new Frontend.

### Install

The React frontend requires its own packages that aren't installed via the usual invoke tasks.

#### Docker

Run the following command:
`docker compose run inventree-dev-server invoke frontend-compile`
This will install the required packages for running the React frontend on your InvenTree dev server.

#### Devcontainer
!!! warning "This guide assumes you already have a running devcontainer"
!!! info "All these steps are performed within Visual Studio Code"

Open a new terminal from the top menu by clicking `Terminal > New Terminal`
Make sure this terminal is running within the virtual env. The start of the last line should display `(venv)`

Run the command `invoke frontend-compile`. Wait for this to finish

### Running

After finishing the install, you need to launch a frontend server to be able to view the new UI.

Using the previously described ways of running commands, execute the following:
`invoke frontend-dev` in your environment
This command does not run as a background daemon, and will occupy the window it's ran in.

### Accessing

When the frontend server is running, it will be available on port 5173.
i.e: https://localhost:5173/

### Information

On Windows, any Docker interaction is run via WSL. Naturally, all containers and devcontainers run through WSL.
The default configuration for the frontend server sets up file polling to enable hot reloading.
This is in itself a huge performance hit. If you're running an older system, it might just be enough to block anything from running in the container.

If you're having issues running the Frontend server, have a look at your Docker Desktop app.
If you routinely see the container using almost ALL available CPU capacity, you need to turn off file polling.

!!! warning "Turning off file polling requires you to restart the frontend server process upon each file change"

Head to the following path: `src/frontend/vite.config.ts` and change:

`const IS_IN_WSL = platform().includes('WSL') || release().includes('WSL');`
to
`const IS_IN_WSL = false;`

!!! tip "Make sure to not commit this change!"

!!! warning "This change will require you to restart the frontend server for every change you make in the frontend code"

Commit message:

[PUI] Login / Logout State Fixes (#6368)
* Fix API endpoint URLs

* Adds "authenticated" field to root API endpoint

* Load global status data separately

- Create new global state manager
- Load *after* login
- Prevents auth popup dialog and failure messages

* Add launch config for frontend dev

* Update docs

* Clear token auth if no token is defined

* remove unneeded import

* Revert format of InfoView endpoint

* Remove "authenticated" from InfoView

* Refactor is_staff token check

- Using new get_token_from_request method

* Cleanup code

- return early

* URL fixes

- More fixes for incorrect api calls

* Better tracking of authenticated status

- track an internal flag in apiState

* Prioritize token auth

* Only fetch userState if authenticated

* Force unauthenticated state on first launch

* Updates to login procedure

- Rename doClassicLogin to doBasicLogin (reflecting "basic" auth)
- Add "loggedIn" attribute to sessionState
- Cleanup procedure for securing a token

* Abort early on checkLoginState

- Prevent failed calls to user_me

* Refactoring

- Simpler to just track token state
- No need for separate status tracker
- Works much cleaner this way

* Remove debug messages

* Cleanup unused imports

* Fix unused variable

* Revert timeout to 2000ms

* Rename doClassicLogout -> doLogout

* Improvements for checkLoginState

- Account for the presence of a CSRF session cookie
- If available, use it to fetch a token

* Clear CSRF cookie on logout

- Forces logout from session
- Tested, works well!
- Clean up notifications

* Cleanup setApiDefaults method

* fix global logout (PUI -> CUI)

---------

Co-authored-by: Matthias Mair <code@mjmair.com>

docs/docs/develop/react-frontend.md, after:

---
title:  Platform UI / React
---

## Setup

The new React-based UI will not be available by default. In order to set your development environment up to view the frontend, follow this guide.
The new UI requires a separate frontend server to run to serve data for the new Frontend.

### Install

The React frontend requires its own packages that aren't installed via the usual invoke tasks.

#### Docker

Run the following command:
`docker compose run inventree-dev-server invoke frontend-compile`
This will install the required packages for running the React frontend on your InvenTree dev server.

#### Devcontainer
!!! warning "This guide assumes you already have a running devcontainer"
!!! info "All these steps are performed within Visual Studio Code"

Open a new terminal from the top menu by clicking `Terminal > New Terminal`
Make sure this terminal is running within the virtual env. The start of the last line should display `(venv)`

Run the command `invoke frontend-compile`. Wait for this to finish

### Running

After finishing the install, you need to launch a frontend server to be able to view the new UI.

Using the previously described ways of running commands, execute the following:
`invoke frontend-dev` in your environment
This command does not run as a background daemon, and will occupy the window it's ran in.

### Accessing

When the frontend server is running, it will be available on port 5173.
i.e: https://localhost:5173/

### Debugging

You can attach the vscode debugger to the frontend server to debug the frontend code. With the frontend server running, open the `Run and Debug` view in vscode and select `InvenTree Frontend - Vite` from the dropdown. Click the play button to start debugging. This will attach the debugger to the running vite server, and allow you to place breakpoints in the frontend code.

!!! info "Backend Server"
    To debug the frontend code, the backend server must be running (in a separate process). Note that you cannot debug the backend server and the frontend server in the same vscode instance.

### Information

On Windows, any Docker interaction is run via WSL. Naturally, all containers and devcontainers run through WSL.
The default configuration for the frontend server sets up file polling to enable hot reloading.
This is in itself a huge performance hit. If you're running an older system, it might just be enough to block anything from running in the container.

If you're having issues running the Frontend server, have a look at your Docker Desktop app.
If you routinely see the container using almost ALL available CPU capacity, you need to turn off file polling.

!!! warning "Turning off file polling requires you to restart the frontend server process upon each file change"

Head to the following path: `src/frontend/vite.config.ts` and change:

`const IS_IN_WSL = platform().includes('WSL') || release().includes('WSL');`
to
`const IS_IN_WSL = false;`

!!! tip "Make sure to not commit this change!"

!!! warning "This change will require you to restart the frontend server for every change you make in the frontend code"
